session-delivery-resources/readme.md, before:

## How to deliver this session

🥇 Thanks for delivering this session!

Prior to delivering the workshop please:

1.  Read this document and all included resources included in their entirety.
2.  Watch the video presentation
3.  Ask questions of the content leads! We're here to help!


## 📁 File Summary

| Resources          | Links                            | Description |
|-------------------|----------------------------------|-------------------|
| Workshop Slide Deck      |  [Presentation](https://aka.ms/)  | Presentation slides for this workshop with presenter notes and embedded demo video |
| Session Delivery Deck     |  [Deck](https://aka.ms/) | The session delivery slides |
| More Files     |  [Some More Files](https://aka.ms/) | More File Descriptions |


## 🚀Get Started

The workshop is divided into multiple sections including 16 slides, 1 demo and 2 hands on labs.

### 🕐Timing

| Time        | Description 
--------------|-------------
0:00 - 5:00   | Intro and overview
5:00 - 70:00  | Session Steps
70:00 - 75:00 | Wrap up and Q&A

### 🏋️Preparation
Preparation Notes go here

### 🖥️Demos
Description of demos goes here

Commit message:

Aug-01 / simplify story in docs

session-delivery-resources/readme.md, after:

## How to deliver this session

🥇 Thanks for delivering this session!

_Prior to delivering the session, please do the following:_

1. Read this document in its entirety
1. Download the Session Delivery Deck for your use
1. Watch the The Session Recording for delivery tips
1. Customize the downloaded deck as indicated below
1. Ask questions of the content leads! We're here to help.



## 1. File Summary

Note that fine-tuning is not something you can demo live (given it takes a couple of hours or more for even the smallest demo). Instead, we recommend setting up the demo a day before - then playing pre-recorded videos to show the concept, and switching to your deployment only to show key aspects or answer questions.

| Resources          | Links                            | Description |
|-------------------|----------------------------------|-------------------|
| Session Delivery Deck   |  [Deck-TBD](https://aka.ms/) | The Powerpoint presentation deck to customize for your stop.|
| Session Walkthrough Video| [Video-TBD](https://aka.ms/) | A recorded version of the talk with tips for pacing and demo setup.  |
| Session Storyboard | [Story-TBD](https://aka.ms/) | A Markdown version of the end-to-end story for this session, with speaker notes and reference |
| Demo Setup Guide |[Demo-TBD](https://aka.ms/)  | Guide to setting up and reproducing demos yourself if necessary. (We provide pre-recorded videos) |
| | |


## 2. Session Summary

The workshop is divided into multiple sections including 16 slides, 1 demo and 2 hands on labs.

### 🕐Timing

| Time        | Description 
--------------|-------------
0:00 - 5:00   | Intro and overview
5:00 - 70:00  | Session Steps
70:00 - 75:00 | Wrap up and Q&A

### 🏋️Preparation
Preparation Notes go here

### 🖥️Demos
Description of demos goes here
